Asset Store	A Unity website that lets you download premade assets for use in your game development projects. Unity developers can also publish their own premade assets to the Asset Store for other developers to download and use.
C Sharp (C#)	The coding language used to create scripts within Unity. C Sharp is primarily responsible for the functionality of a game, going beyond the limitations of general game development tools to help developers tailor and perfect gameplay.
Component	Something that is attached to a GameObject to alter its functionality.
Editor	The dashboard on which all of Unity’s functionality is made available to its users.
Entity	A GameObject that receives components for functionality.
GameObject	Characters, props, and scenery in Unity.
Hierarchy window	A window in the Unity Editor that displays all GameObjects currently being used in your Scene.
Inspector window	The window in which you can view and edit the properties and settings of almost everything that appears in the Unity Editor, including assets, GameObjects, and the Editor itself.
Instance	A specific version of a GameObject created from a template and modified to carry specific traits and behaviors that differentiate it from its original form.
Instantiation	The creation of an instance.
Orthographic camera	A camera view that makes objects appear fixed on the screen, regardless of their actual distance from one another or their relative positions. This is commonly used for retro-style 2D games, as it can make GameObjects look flat, or 2.5D games (2D games that utilize 3D elements), specifically because they allow for touches of 3D depth and definition while maintaining an otherwise 2D appearance.
Package	A container that holds any combination of Assets, Shaders, Textures, plug-ins, icons, and scripts that enhance various parts of your project.
Package Manager	A feature within the Unity Editor that allows you to download and install add-ons and enhancements (packages) for the Unity Editor.
Perspective camera	A camera view that projects objects according to their actual placement and distance on screen, giving viewers a sense of their real-world positions. This is commonly used for fully 3D titles.
Prefab	A typically customized, reusable version of a GameObject.
ProBuilder	A Unity feature that enables designers to build, edit, and texture custom 3D geometry for in-scene level design.
Project window	Effectively the file finder in Unity. This is where you will be able to dive into your Scene, Asset, Prefab, and other folders.
Rigidbody	A component in Unity that lends a GameObject the ability to react to its environment through physics, for instance, giving a GameObject mass.
Runtime	The rendered, platform-specific output (e.g., for iOS, Android, Oculus or PlayStation 4) from a Unity project.
Scene	The entire editable area in which a game can be built. Environments, props, obstacles, NPCs, menu functions and more can be a part of each Scene in Unity.
Shader Graph	A visual Shader editing tool in Unity that lets developers create Shaders without having to write code.
Timeline	A feature in Unity for creating cinematic content, game-play sequences, audio sequences, and complex particle effects.
UIElements	A unified UI editing tool in Unity. As of Unity 2020.1, this is known as the UI Toolkit.
Visual Effect Graph	A node-based visual effect editor that lets developers author visual effects that Unity simulates directly on the GPU.
