Action-adventure	A game where players overcome a series of small and large obstacles while progressing through multiple levels or scenarios.
Augmented reality (AR)	An experience that combines gameplay with augmented reality features overlaid on a physical location. Examples of mobile AR games include Pokémon Go and Jurassic World Alive.
Battle royale	An online game in which the game map serves as an arena for many combatants to find and fight one another, with a typical goal of being the last player standing.
Bullet hell	Games that rely on shooting weapons and dodging return fire as their primary mechanics, often on an exaggerated and grandiose level.
Casual	Games that offer quick entry into gameplay through minimal mechanics.
Cooperative	A game or style of gameplay that rewards collaboration rather than pitting players against each other.
Couch co-op	A cooperative multiplayer game that can only be played by having two or more players in the same physical location.
Downloadable content (DLC)	Additions or expansions to a game that can be downloaded and added through a typically simple in-app installation process.
Educational	A game whose purpose is to educate players in a particular skill or subject matter.
Esports	Professional competitive gaming events.
Fighting	A game whose primary mechanic is hand-to-hand combat in a player(s) versus player(s) (PvP) setting.
First-person shooter (FPS)	A game from the shooter’s perspective, as they point the gun at different targets.
Free-to-play (F2P)	A game that is free to download and play, though the studio/publisher may monetize it through microtransactions (such as IAPs), rewarded videos, ads, or other means.
Horror	A game whose design and mechanics are built around inducing fear and dread in players.
Hyper-casual	A game that usually offers a single, easy-to-understand mechanic that leads to instant gameplay gratification.
In-app purchases (IAPs)	Additional or replenishable items you can buy from within a game.
Massively multiplayer online role-playing game (MMORPG)	A role-playing game that typically allows hundreds or thousands of online players to play and interact in the same gaming world.
Metroidvania	A subgenre of action-adventure games whose design and mechanics are heavily inspired by the games Metroid and Castlevania.
Microtransaction	A small transaction completed online, usually for an in-app purchase.
Multiplayer	A game that allows more than one player to play at any given time.
Multiplayer online battle arena (MOBA)	A type of strategy game that has teams of players pitted against one another, with each team’s members coordinating their attacks and defenses to achieve victory.
Non-playable character, or non-player character (NPC)	An in-game character controlled by artificial intelligence (AI).
Open-world	A game where the player is given an extremely large world in which to explore and play.
Party	Typically 4- to 8-player multiplayer games that allow friends to compete against one another for rewards and victory.
Platformer	A game that is typically two-dimensional, in which players run, climb, and jump on platforms in order to make progress.
Player(s) versus player(s) (PvP)	A game where one or more players compete against one or more players.
Point-and-click	A game that relies on mouse clicks in order to advance characters, solve puzzles, and make choices.
Puzzle	A game that requires players to solve visual or logic problems, find matching items/patterns, etc., to accumulate points or move to a new level. Games like Monument Valley fall in this genre.
Racing	Any game whose primary mechanic is competitive racing against AI or other players.
Real-time strategy (RTS)	A game in which players typically control a squadron of characters and try to dominate a computer or player-controlled opposing army. Games like Civilization, Age of Empires, and the original Warcraft/Warcraft II fall in this genre.
Rhythm	A game that relies on controller inputs that correspond with rhythmic prompting, usually through music or sound effects combined with visual cues.
Roguelike	A type of role-playing action-adventure game in which players typically have one life to make it to the end of the game, or at least very limited opportunities for resurrection.
Role-playing game (RPG)	An immersive play style that typically encourages immersion and interaction, as well as the ability to heavily customize and personalize your playable characters. Sci-Fi and Fantasy are popular types of RPG.
Sandbox	A game that allows players to build their playable world around them.
Shooter	A genre of game based on gunplay. There are first-person shooters, third-person shooters, and other subgenres.
Simulation (Sim)	A game that imitates real-life activities and functions, usually in a very accurate way.
Souls-like	A type of action-adventure game that typically relies on “dodge or die” mechanics à la Dark Souls.
Sports	A game where a team or individual sport such as football, soccer, tennis, or cycling has been simulated.
Stealth	A game that relies on players remaining hidden and covertly making their way past or through obstacles to succeed.
Strategy	A game that requires planning and organization to advance (and to avoid setbacks) towards achieving an end goal.
Survival	A game in which it is necessary for players to keep their characters safe and healthy, usually by outrunning enemies while seeking food, water, and shelter.
Text-based	A largely obsolete style of gameplay in which players are presented with scenarios in text form, and they must respond with text commands to advance the game.
Third-person shooter	A shooter game where the perspective is from an “objective” camera, showing the shooter and their environment.
Tile-matching	A game where players must identify or match a number of similar tiles. A common type is a match 3 (match-three) game. Tetris falls into this genre.
Virtual reality (VR)	A game that requires players to wear a virtual reality headset and use input devices such as a keyboard or hand controllers to experience gameplay in a virtual 3D environment. Examples include Beat Saber and Rock Band VR.
Visual novel	A game style that relies on static sprites or art pieces that correspond with text-based storytelling, typically played by choosing predetermined responses to the story being told. Often uses an anime style.